# Passwords

## Password and Account Protection

A user is given a username (also known as a login name) and associated
password that permits her/him to access NERSC resources.  This
username/password pair may be used by a single individual only:
*passwords must not be shared with any other person*. Users who share
their passwords will have their access to NERSC disabled.

Passwords must be changed as soon as possible after exposure or
suspected compromise.  Exposure of passwords and suspected compromises
must immediately be reported to NERSC at security@nersc.gov or the
Account Support Group, accounts@nersc.gov.

## Forgotten Passwords

If you forget your password or if it has recently expired, and you
have previously answered your NIM security questions, you can reset
your password using the Self-Service Password reset link on the NIM
login page (https://nim.nersc.gov - Reset Your NIM Password?).  See
"Managing Your User Account With NIM" in the NIM User's Guide.  If you
haven't answered the Security Questions, you will need to call
Operations at 800-666-3772, menu option 1, or 510-486-6821 to get a
new temporary password (we do not send passwords via email).  The
temporary password is good for only 24 hours.  You should login to NIM
with this temporary password, and immediately choose a new password.
After about 10 minutes, this new password may be used to login to any
NERSC computer.

## Passwords for New Users

NERSC must have a Computer User Agreement (CUA) form on file before
activating a user's account and assigning a user a password in the NIM
system.  This form can be submitted online.

Once we have received the form and attached it to your account
(assuming that your PI has already requested that you be added to
their project repository), you will receive an email with a link that
will allow you to set your initial password. This link will expire
after 72 hours. If it has expired, you will need to call Operations at
800-666-3772, menu option 1, or 510-486-6821 to get a temporary
password.  The temporary password is good for only 24 hours.  You
should immediately login to NIM with this password, and choose a new
password.  After about 10 minutes, this new password may be used to
login to any NERSC computer.

## How To Change Your Password in NIM

All of NERSC's computational systems are managed by the LDAP protocol
and use the NIM password. Passwords cannot be changed directly on the
computational machines, but rather the NIM password itself must be
changed:

1.  Point your browser to nim.nersc.gov and login to nim.nersc.gov.
2.  Click on the "Change My Password" link at the top left-hand corner
    of the main page next to the Logout link, or select "Change NIM
    Password" from the Actions pull-down list in the NIM main menu.

Passwords must be changed under any one of the following circumstances:

*  At least every six months.
*  Immediately after someone else has obtained your password (do *NOT*
   give your password to anyone else).
*  As soon as possible, but at least within one business day after a
   password has been compromised or after you suspect that a password
   has been compromised.
*  On direction from NERSC staff.

Your new password must adhere to NERSC's password requirements.

## Password Requirements

As a Department of Energy facility, NERSC is required to adhere to
Department of Energy guidelines regarding passwords.  The following
requirements conform to the Department of Energy guidelines regarding
passwords, namely DOE Order 205.3 and to Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory's
[RPM ยง9.02 Operational Procedures for Computing and
Communications](https://commons.lbl.gov/display/rpm2/Security+for+Information+Technology#SecurityforInformationTechnology-64452698).

When users are selecting their own passwords for use at NERSC, the
following requirements must be used.

*  Passwords must contain at least eight nonblank characters.
*  Passwords must contain a combination of upper and lowercase
   letters, numbers, and at least one special character within the
   first seven positions.
*  Passwords must contain a nonnumeric letter or symbol in the first
   and last positions.
*  Passwords must not contain the user login name.
*  Passwords must not include the user's own or (to the best of his or
   her knowledge) a close friend's or relative's name, employee
   number, Social Security or other Identification number, birth date,
   telephone number, or any information about him or her that the user
   believes could be readily learned or guessed.
*  Passwords must not (to the best of the user's knowledge) include
   common words from an English dictionary or a dictionary of another
   language with which the user has familiarity.
*  Passwords must not (to the best of the user's knowledge) contain
   commonly used proper names, including the name of any fictional
   character or place.
*  Passwords must not contain any simple pattern of letters or numbers
   such as "qwertyxx".

## Login Failures

Your login privileges will be disabled if you have five login failures
while entering your password on a NERSC machine.  You do not need a
new password in this situation.  You can clear your login failures on
all systems by simply logging in to NIM .  No additional actions are
necessary.
